---
title: Terminology for Computing in the Network
abbrev: COIN Terminology
docname: draft-irtf-coinrg-coin-terminology-00
date: {DATE}
category: info
ipr: trust200902
area: General
workgroup: COINRG
stream: IRTF

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs, docmapping]

author:
-
    ins: I. Kunze
    name: Ike Kunze
    org: RWTH Aachen University
    abbrev: RWTH Aachen
    email: kunze@comsys.rwth-aachen.de
    street: Ahornstr. 55
    city: Aachen
    code: D-52074
    country: Germany
-
    ins: K. Wehrle
    name: Klaus Wehrle
    org: RWTH Aachen University
    abbrev: RWTH Aachen
    email: wehrle@comsys.rwth-aachen.de
    street: Ahornstr. 55
    city: Aachen
    code: D-52074
    country: Germany
-
    ins: D. Trossen
    name: Dirk Trossen
    org: Huawei Technologies Duesseldorf GmbH
    abbrev: Huawei
    email: Dirk.Trossen@Huawei.com
    street: Riesstr. 25C
    city: Munich
    code: D-80992
    country: Germany

-
    ins: M.J. Montpetit
    name: Marie-Jose Montpetit
    org: Concordia University
    abbrev: Concordia
    email: marie@mjmontpetit.com
    city: Montreal
    country: Canada

- 
    ins: X. de Foy
    name: Xavier de Foy
    org: InterDigital Communications, LLC
    street: '1000 Sherbrooke West'
    city: Montreal
    code: H3A 3G4
    country: Canada
    email: xavier.defoy@interdigital.com
    
-
    ins: D. Griffin
    name: David Griffin
    org: University College London
    abbrev: UCL
    street: Gower St
    city: London
    code: WC1E 6BT
    country: UK
    email: d.griffin@ucl.ac.uk

- 
    ins: M. Rio
    name: Miguel Rio
    org: University College London
    abbrev: UCL
    street: Gower St
    city: London
    code: WC1E 6BT
    country: UK
    email: miguel.rio@ucl.ac.uk


informative:
  I-D.draft-irtf-coinrg-use-cases-02:
  I-D.draft-kutscher-coinrg-dir-02:
  TRANSPORT: DOI.10.1109/ICNP55882.2022.9940379


--- abstract

The term Computing in the Network (COIN) is used for a diverse set of scenarios.
Often associated with leveraging richer computing capabilities within network elements, its clear scope is yet unknown.
This document tries to bring clarity to the current understanding of COIN through defining a terminology to streamline corresponding discussions.

--- middle


# Introduction {#intro}
The ongoing development of ever richer computing capabilities within network elements is often captured as Computing in the Network (COIN).
However, there are different interpretations of the term, often revolving around the 'place' of execution, captured by the 'in-network' aspect of COIN {{TRANSPORT}}. 
The different views range from 'only computations on networking hardware' on the one hand to 'COIN is a subset of edge/cloud computing' on the other hand.
These differences in interpretation often lead to difficulties in discussions.

The goal of this document is to contribute to the clarity in any discussion on COIN through outlining what is a first understanding of a terminology that ought to be used in such discussion. 
The first definitions in this context were proposed by {{I-D.draft-kutscher-coinrg-dir-02}} and later adapted by {{I-D.draft-irtf-coinrg-use-cases-02}} before being moved to this separate document for broader discussion.

With this in mind, this document captures the current state of agreement on a common terminology. 
It is likely that the document will (need to) see a future revision if this understanding is improved through increased insights and changes in the views of the community. 


# Terminology {#terms}

Programmable Network Devices (PNDs): network devices, such as network interface cards and switches, which are programmable, e.g., using P4 or other languages.

(COIN) Execution Environment: a class of target environments for function execution, for example, a JVM-based execution environment that can run functions represented in JVM byte code 

COIN System: the PNDs (and end systems) and their execution environments, together with the communication resources interconnecting them, operated by a single provider or through interactions between multiple providers that jointly offer COIN capabilities

COIN Capability: a feature enabled through the joint processing of computation and communication resources in the network

(COIN) Program: a monolithic functionality that is provided according to the specification for said program and which may be requested by a user.  A composite service can be built by orchestrating a combination of monolithic COIN programs.

(COIN) Program Instance: one running instance of a program

COIN Experience: a new user experience brought about through the utilization of COIN capabilities

# Security Considerations {#sec_considerations}

TBD



# IANA Considerations
N/A


# Conclusion
This document defines a core terminology for COIN at this point in the work of COIN RG and is thus positioned as a living document which may see revision in due course.

